---
layout: post
title: This Site
tags: 
      - jekyll
      - code
      - github
categories: tech
---

<div class="message">	
     Hello World !!
</div>

In this post, I want to list out all the steps I went through to finally put up this site.

There were more than one resources, and more than one site that I scavenged to properly
set up the site.

This is an on going effort, as I don't recall all the steps, tutorials, site and other resources
I went through to finally be able to put this together.

The basic things required to setup a website are as follows:

* [Gandi](http://gandi.net) To search and register the domain name.
* [Github](http://github.com) To setup the repository to host this website as static site.
* [Hyde](http://hyde.getpoole.com) To setup hyde theme of poole bsaed on [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com).

Moving forward I'll assume a familiarity with github and git source control system.

First thing you might want to do is create a github account.
Once you have account ready, create a new repository with the name: <em>username.github.io</em> where username is your username for github account.

Once git repository is ready, pull Hyde repository and push the same in your <em>username.github.io</em>.

Now comes the part of pointing the domain name you registered to this site.

<!--break-->

This step is pretty simple.

In your git repository create a file <strong>CNAME</strong> and add a line for your sub domain that should point at this site.

Once you are done with that, we need to update the DNS zone file to redirect traffic to github.

The next few steps are specific for Gandi, and I am pretty sure similar things can be done for other domain name service providers.

First create a new version of your DNS zone file (so that we can edit).

Then add a new CNAME entry in that.<br />
We'll use Normal mode edit for our purpose.

In the Name section, enter the subdomain part you entered in the CNAME file in github repository.<br />
In the value section, enter the <em>username.github.io.</em> where username changes accordingly. Notice the <strong>.</strong> at the end, it should be present.

That's it. 

If you also want the bare domain to point to your site, than you can do one simple thing. 

Point the subdomain <em>www.domain.name</em> in your CNAME file in git repository, and then in CNAME entry in Gandi, add <em>www</em> in Name section.<br />
Then you can use their domain forwarding service to point bare domain to forward at <em>www.domain.name</em>.

Now the basic stuff is ready to go. To blog and add more posts, there are many tutorials, so I won't spend any time on that.

After this comes the tweaking part. This is where I spent most of time to figure things out and keep them looking as I want them to look.

It'll be pretty long and dry.

I'll keep updating the stuff as I figured them out.

Until then, I'll also try and get back into blogging/coding stuff.

